we're ready to make it so that the
player can take damage and lose lives
and the first thing we're going to do is
make it so that when the player gets
hurt it blows up and then is regenerated
but then has a little bit of
invulnerability for a few seconds so
over here in the assets I have created a
sprite player hurt and this is identical
to the sprite player it's just that I
have added an empty frame here after the
first image and showing the preview
it'll just flicker that way there's
another way of doing this using a draw
events but we're not going to do that
for this game and now we can open up our
object player so in the create event we
are going to create a new variable so
kind of control set variable and the
variable we are going to make is is
underscore hurt we're going to set that
to false and we're going to make it so
the player can be hurt when they collide
with the enemy bullets and the enemies
themselves we'll start with the bullets
so add event collision and we'll be
looking for this object bullet the
object bullet is also a parent of the
object boss bullets so this will affect
that as well and first we need to test
and see if we are not invulnerable in
other words if we're not hurt already
so let's come to test variable and we
are going to test is underscore hurt and
if it's equal to false bring in some
blocks and first thing we are going to
do is set variable and turn the variable
is underscore hurt to true this way we
cannot be damaged by multiple bullets at
the same time we could set up a hit
point system for the player but in these
types of games usually one hit kills the
player which makes it so challenging so
when the player gets hit by the bullet
we need to make the bullet disappear so
come over to main one and our destroy
instance and we are going to destroy the
other the object bullet
and before we destroy the player we need
to make an explosion so create instance
and we are going to create the object
explosion large and the coordinates I'm
going to give this is in the exposition
a negative sprite underscore width
divided by 2 2 and set to relative the
object player sprite has its origin
point on the far right and so in order
to get the explosion to appear in the
center we need to use this formula of a
negative sprite width divided by 2 and
that should put it right in the middle
of the sprite click OK and instead of
actually destroying the player we're
just going to move it off screen and
then have it pop back on this will make
it easier for us rather than just
creating a new object and determining
whether or not it's hurt and all that
complicated stuff we can just use the
same object so we're going to come to
move and jump to position and we're
going to set it to negative 50 and
negative 50 and this will set it off the
screen off above the top left corner
click OK and then finally we need to
make it so that the player comes back on
screen so we'll use a timer for that go
to main to set alarm and we'll set the
alarm to say 10 and we'll give it alarm
1 let's go to add event alarm alarm 1
and we're going to have it jump back to
where it originally was so let's go to
move and come down to the jump category
jump to start we need to change the
sprite to our sprite hurt so let's go to
main change sprite we will change this
to our sprite player hurt we can leave
everything as is and then we're going to
have to set up another alarm so that we
can change back to normal
and get rid of our invulnerability so
let's go to main to set alarm again and
we'll set this to 60 steps so 2 seconds
we want to change this to alarm - click
OK
and then add event alarm alarm - so now
we can change our sprite back to the
original lens so main one change sprite
we will change it to sprite player and
then we need to turn out the
invulnerability so ctrl set variable is
underscore hurt back to false and that
should do it so let's go ahead and run
the game and the boss will come on and
shoot take a hit blow up come back
flickering for a while but you see that
I do have invulnerability for a while
right now though we've got it set up so
that the player just sort of goes
forever we'll have to set up a life
counter system but first let's also set
up functionality so that the player can
be destroyed if it collides with an
enemy and all we have to do for that is
duplicate this collision with object
bullet so come right-click it and
duplicate event I'm going to do
collision with object enemy parent when
we collide with the enemy I also want to
add another explosion on the enemy
itself so let's duplicate this create
instance copy and paste and I'm going to
take the other one apply it to other and
instead of a negative sprite width I'm
going to give it a positive sprite width
and then finally I want to have the same
thing happen when we collide with the
boss so let's duplicate the object
bullet again let's have it collide with
object boss and we don't want a
collision with the boss to destroy the
boss so let's get rid of this action and
that should work so let's go ahead and
test let's see if I can run into it
before it shoots me yes okay so I should
be able to get hit by a bullet and I
just come flashing back let's open up
our room 1 and remove the boss character
and let's put in some of our other
enemies
asteroid and jellyfish and a squid
okay I'll go run into the asteroid it
creates another explosion
run into the squid a jellyfish should be
able to shoot me and hopefully I can run
into it and oh did but we don't want our
player to be able to die again and again
and again so we'll set up a life counter
in a scorekeeper next